EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
 
This EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT made in ……….. on this ………….. 
Between 
…………………….. (hereinafter referred to as “Employer”), having its registered office at 
………………………….. IN 
AND 
…………….. S/O………. (Father), residing at ………………. hereinafter referred to as the “Employee” 
(The Company and the Employee are hereinafter jointly referred to as the “Parties” and individually as a 
“Party”). 
NOW THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH AND IT IS HEREBY AGREED BY AND BETWEEN THE 
PARTIES HERETO AS UNDER: 
 
 
1. 
DESIGNATION 
 
The Employee is hereby appointed and shall hold office as ___________ of the Company on the 
terms and conditions contained hereunder. 
 
2. 
PROBATIONARY PERIOD 
 
The probationary period will be of ___________ and the company will evaluate the new hire’s 
qualifications, skills and "fit" within our Company. The given time frame does not constitute an 
obligation on the part of the Company to retain the employee until the end of the probationary 
period. This period involves special orientation activities plus closer and more frequent 
performance evaluations than that given to regular employees. During this time or at any time of 
employment, the Company may terminate the working relationship without cause with advance 
notice, except as prescribed by law.  
At the end of the probationary period, if the employee has not been available to work the full 
probationary period or work performance has not met expectations, the length of the probation 
may be extended by the Company at its sole discretion.  
Upon satisfactory completion of the probationary period, the employee will achieve a regular or 
part time employee status and as such, will be eligible for most of our benefits (exceptions would 
be benefits that have a specific waiting period).  
The employee will now be expected to meet and maintain Company standards for job 
performance and behavior. 
 
3. 
PLACE OF WORK 
3.1  The Employee will be stationed in the Employer’s offices currently located in _________, but the 
Company shall be entitled to transfer the Employee’s services to any of the branches, sister 
concerns, which are presently operating or that which may be set up in future, in India or outside 
India. 
3.2 The Employee may be required to work at premises other than the Company’s premises from 
time to time. 
 
 
 
 
_____________ 
               ___________ 
       ( DIRECTOR) 
                 (Post) 
(Name of the Company) 
         EMPLOYEE 
 
4. 
DUTIES AND POWERS 
 
4.1 The Employee shall devote his / her efforts and his / her full business time and attention to the 
performance of such duties and responsibilities as may be assigned to him/her from time to time by the 
Director of the Company and in this regard follow all instructions issued or given by the Director of the 
Company or by a Manager immediately Senior to the Employee or by the Board of Directors of the 
Company. 
4.2  The Employee shall maintain proper dignity of the company’s office and deal the matter with 
sobriety. 
4.3 In performing  his /her duties as_____________of the Company the Employee shall adhere to 
all applicable laws and regulations as well as follow the Company’s policies and instructions. 
4.4  The Employee shall devote his/her best efforts and all of his/her business time to the 
performance of his/her duties under this Employment Agreement and shall perform them 
faithfully, diligently and competently, in a manner consistent with the policies of the Company as 
determined from time to time by the Director of the Company and shall directly report to the 
immediate Head or Senior in hierarchy. The Employee whilst working with the Company shall 
not, except with the prior written consent of the Board of Directors engage in activities outside the 
scope of his/her employment and shall fulfill his/her responsibilities or duties under this 
Employment Agreement. 
4.5 That during the Employment period, the employee without consent of the company in writing 
shall not sign on any documents or commit on behalf of the company without mutual consent. If 
the employee violates the same, then consequently in case if any liability arises then the 
company shall not be responsible for it in any circumstances. 
4.6  As ______________of the Company the Employee shall be responsible for the day-to-day 
management to immediate Head or Senior in hierarchy. 
4.7 That the employee services will be governed by the rules and regulations of the company as in 
force from time to time and also as per certified model. The Employer can modify the Agreement 
or Rules and Regulations from time to time and the modification will be applicable from the same 
day. 
4.8 It is hereby agreed by and between the Company and the Employee hereto that in case any 
claim, dispute or difference arises between the Parties with regard to the terms and conditions of 
this Employment Agreement or relating to the interpretation hereof whether during the 
subsistence of this Employment Agreement or thereafter, the same shall be referred to the sole 
arbitration of a single arbitrator, Mr. __________, in accordance with the provisions of the 
Arbitration and Conciliation Act, 1996 or any statutory modification or re-enactment thereof for 
the time being in force. The arbitration shall be held in Jaipur and the proceedings shall be 
conducted in the Hindi language. The Parties hereby agree that the arbitral award shall be final, 
binding and conclusive on the Parties to this Employment Agreement. 
 
5. 
ANNUAL BASE SALARY 
 
5.1  The Employee, who is entitled to a salary, will be CTC (as given in salary structure) in 
accordance with the Company’s customary payroll practices. 
5.2 The Employee shall not entitle to get salary, if he/she fails to meet the objectives or targets laid 
down by the company. 
 
 
 
6. 
CONFIDENTIALITY 
 
6.1  The Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, either during the term of the Employee’s 
employment under this Employment Agreement or thereafter, disclose to anyone (except in the 
regular course of the Company’s business or as required by law), or use in any manner, any 
information acquired by the Employee during his/her employment by the Company with respect 
to any trade secrets, clients, customers or other confidential information of the Company, its 
subsidiaries and associate companies world wide, their operations or affairs unless such 
information has become public knowledge other than by reason of actions (direct or indirect) of 
the Employee. 
6.2 As long as the Employee is employed, and also thereafter, he/she shall maintain confidential the 
corporate secrets and all other information of a confidential nature pertaining to the Company 
and its operations. The Employee may use such information only during his/her employment by 
the Company and in the interest of the Company. The Employee shall at all times carefully and 
diligently safeguard and promote the Company’s interests. 
6.3 During the course of employment, any such creation, innovation or any such intellectual property 
in the form of software, hardware etc shall be exclusive property of the company as well the 
source code of the company shall remain exclusive property of the company. That the employee 
shall not use the source code of the company directly or indirectly. If the company finds that the 
employee is contravening this term directly or indirectly then the company shall be entitled to 
claim damages under section 73, 74 of the contract act and also entitled to initiate legal 
proceeding against the employee. 
6.4 That during and after the employment period, the employee will not divulge or appropriate to 
his/her own use or to the use of others, in competition with the company, any secret or 
confidential information or knowledge pertaining to the business of the company, or of any of its 
subsidiaries, obtained by the Employee while employed by the company or any of its 
subsidiaries. 
6.5  That the Employee will maintain proper dignity as well as decorum of company’s office. The 
Employee will maintain and keep in his/her safe custody such identity card, documents, files, 
books, mobile, laptop, papers etc issued to the Employee and shall return the same whenever 
required. 
6.6  The agreement shall revive and apply again from time to time post completion of Two-Year 
period. 
6.7 When the Employee’s employment with the Company is terminated, he/she shall return to the 
Company all business documentation, software, notes etc. and copies thereof pertaining to the 
Company and its operations that have been entrusted to him/her or to which he/she has access. 
 
 
7. 
NON-COMPETE CLAUSE 
 
7.1 That the employee after the period of employment is over, shall not open similar nature company 
upto three years directly or indirectly. If the company finds that the employee is contravening this 
term directly or indirectly, then the company shall be entitled to claim damages under section 73, 
74 of the contract act as well as entitled to initiate appropriate legal proceeding against the 
employee. 
7.2  That the client or the customer shall be sole client of the company. During the employment 
period as well as after the employment period is over, if the company finds out that the employee 
is trying to connect with the client of the company directly or indirectly, then the company shall be 
entitled to claim damages under section 73, 74 of the contract act as well as entitled to initiate 
appropriate legal proceeding against the employee. 
7.3 During the course of employment, employee shall not do any personal work or for any third party 
otherwise it will become a ground for termination and compensation clause will apply. 
 
8. 
TERM OF CONTRACT, TERMINATION OF EMPLOYMENT AND SEVERANCE PAY 
 
8.1 This Employment Agreement shall continue until terminated by either Party as provided herein 
and supersedes any and all prior oral or written agreements pertaining to the duration, 
compensation and conditions of employment of the Employee. 
8.2 The Employee may lawfully terminate this Employment Agreement by giving to the Employer not 
less than notice in writing and the employee shall not be entitled to get the salary of the notice 
period and on break of bond of two years the employee is liable to pay penalty equal to Rs. 2 
lakhs. Employer can terminate the employee any time with immediate effect without giving any 
Notice Period.  
8.3  In case if the employee leaves the company or terminates his/her employment before 
completion of two years, then he/she is liable to pay penalty equal to Rs. 2 lakhs. Since the 
Employer’s company is a software developing company as well as a reputed Training Academy 
that enjoys tremendous goodwill in the market. Since, a lot of time, energy and effort is devoted 
and invested in grooming young aspiring Employees which is essential in bringing out the best of 
talent in them and nurturing them to make them able, competent and successful professionals. 
8.4 No severance pay, as mentioned above, will be made to the Employee in case the Company has 
terminated the Employee’s employment due to his/her breach of Agreement or if he/she do not 
meet the performance criteria prescribed by the Company. 
8.5  All memoranda, notes, records, or other documents made or composed by the Employee, or 
made available to him/her during the term of this Employment Agreement concerning or in any 
way relating to the business or affairs of the Company, its subsidiaries, divisions, affiliates, or 
clients shall be the Company’s property and shall be delivered to the Company on the 
termination of this Employment Agreement or at any other time at the request of the Company. 
8.6 That if the employee commits any offence punishable under the Indian Law even outside the 
company or with the customer outside the course of employment, the company shall not be 
responsible for it in any circumstances. 
8.7 That during the course of employment, if the employee commits any fraud with the company and 
as a result of which the company suffers huge loss, in case of such an event, the Employer shall 
be entitled to recover the same from the employee’s movable and immovable property by 
instituting legal / court proceedings. 
8.8  If any training is provided to the employee, the company has full rights to recover the expenses 
incurred to train that employee if he/she resigns before completion of 6 months of the training 
tenure.  
8.9 Notwithstanding the above, Employment Agreement can be terminated on the following grounds: 
 
8.9.1 Employee being found guilty of any dishonesty, misconduct, willful neglect of duty 
or other conduct amounting to gross misconduct with fellow colleagues or seniors; 
8.9.2 Employee committing a material breach of the terms and conditions of this 
Employment Agreement; 
8.9.3 Employee being found to be medically unfit or, 
8.9.4 Employee being declared a bankrupt or insolvent or, 
8.9.5 Employee being convicted of any offence involving moral turpitude or defined 
under the Indian Law, 
8.9.6 Misappropriation of the Company’s monies or property by the Employee or; 
8.9.7 Misconduct or insubordination on the part of the Employee, 
 
8.9.8 Infringement of any Company rules and regulations by the Employee. 
The Employee shall be liable to be dismissed or discharged forthwith notwithstanding the rights 
and without giving any notice, which the Company may otherwise have against the Employee in 
case of any loss (grave or remote) caused by the employee during the course of his/her 
employment and the losses will be borne by him/her by way of damages which shall be 
calculated by the management of the company. 
 
9. 
OTHER TERMS OF EMPLOYMENT 
 
Company has prepared Guidelines for Employees in which Rules and Regulation for an 
employee are defined. These Guidelines will be defining the policies of the company. These 
guidelines will be available to the employees on mail. Guidelines are subject to change as and 
when required. And it will be part & parcel of this Agreement and it will be binding on the 
employees. 
 
10. 
MISCELLANEOUS 
10.1 This Employment Agreement contains a complete statement of all the arrangements between 
the Company and the Employee with respect to its subject matter and supersedes all previous 
agreements, written or oral relating to the subject matter of this Employment Agreement, and 
cannot be modified, amended, or terminated orally. 
10.2 That this employment agreement may be amended or cancelled by mutual agreement of the 
parties and without consent of any other person and, so long as the employee lives, no person, 
other than the parties hereto, shall have any rights under or interest in this Agreement. 
 
11. 
JURISDICTION 
11.1 This Employment Agreement shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws 
of Jaipur (India). 
11.2 In cases if any dispute arises that is of administrative trivial nature, then the same shall be 
referred to the board, thus the decision of the board will be final and binding on the parties. 
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF the Parties hereto have hereunto set and subscribed their respective hands 
the day and year first hereinabove written. 
 
 
In the Presence of :
 
